---
layout: post
title:  "Thanks, bro."
date:   2019-09-16 08:05:25 -0700
category: ponderings
---

I'm lucky to have my brother. I'm lucky that we have a good relationship. And I'm lucky to have a brother who makes me laugh.

My brother is a software engineer. So, he understands when I texted him in need of some sympathy that I had spent wayyyy too long to discover I misplaced a block of code outside a while loop for my homework. Our conversation continued like this:

B (for bro): Lol  
B: Don't you love to code? :')  
M: no, this is why i don't sleep  
M: this is why i dream about my hw  
B: Isn't it awesome?  
B: Academia  
B: Dream about hw problems  
M: thats another level of dreaming... i have transcended, lol. i have yet to dream about the solutions to my hw problems.  
B: Wow, if you do that  
B: You will literally have transcended  
B: Get to the stage of dreaming about the solutions to your hw problems!!  
M: I like you, you make me laugh (I literally burst out laughing at those last few texts)  
B: thank u  
B: I praise myself as well  
M: what do you praise yourself for?  
B: For being me (insert hand peace sign)

My friends think I'm too positive sometimes. And I think, how can I be negative when I have a brother like this one? One who allows me to complain but also twists it into a positive light (to be fair, he really likes what he does). One who can joke about things so nonchalantly. One who can easily dissipate my pent up emotions. I was real frustrated and upset when I texted him, and immediately after this text chain, I was okay again.

I'm thankful and grateful to have someone like my bro in my life.