---
layout: post
title:  "Smiling is magic."
date:   2019-07-13 02:05:25 -0700
category: lifestyle
---

Today was a good Saturday. I got a much-needed good night's sleep, no alarm to wake me up. Put in a little workout in the morning and off to the farmers' market.

Austin is cool in that it has municipal composting. My apartment doesn't have composting, but I can make a trip to my preferred grocery stores and compost my food scraps there. I collect my week's compost in my freezer, and it was piling up, so I made a trip to Whole Foods to dispose of my compost. 

Then, my bro called me, which was a really nice surprise! We talked for an hour, where he filled me in on his first week at his new job (exciting)! We had a good sibling chat, while I enjoyed the views of families and individuals enjoying the park next to the downtown farmers' market. 

It was a bus day today, aka I got a 24 hour bus pass to travel around Austin. This was mainly due to the very hot weather and my need to get to places faster than it would take me to walk to places. I'm not sure what was going on though, but so many people smiled at me today. I think it might be because I have a natural tendency to smile at people who I make eye contact with. And people's natural instinct is to smile back. However, I noticed it a lot more today. 

It made me feel extra good to be smiled at. If you're curious as to why I have a natural tendency to smile a lot and to people, it's because it feels good to be smiled at, and it makes others smile. When I was little, I liked people who smiled at me. And wanting others to like me, I practiced smiling at other people, genuinely.

One thing I learned here in Austin is that it's nice to say 'thank you' to the bus drivers. It seems obvious but so few people do it. When I took my first bus trip in Austin, I saw a guy say 'thank you' to the bus driver when he got off. And in my head, I was like, "Wow, that's so nice!" So I've been doing that too now. When I get off, I'll look at the bus driver via their mirror, say thank you (and smile if I remember to, I'm not super conscious when I smile anymore), maybe wave, and get off. 

I also say 'hi' to the bus driver and smile every time I get on. Today, every single bus driver smiled back and said 'hi' to me. It made me feel good.

I also found an African fashion show to attend, and there, I made eye contact with this little girl. I smiled, and her face lit up, and she smiled back. 

Hahaha, these aren't really exciting stories, but as I am writing about them, it just makes me smile and feel good. There's lots of positive energy that comes from this small exchange. I had more smile exchanges with vendors at the farmers' market today, other attendees of the African fashion show, and people in my apartment building. 

This weekend, I'm dedicating to being alone and getting a lot more content editing done for my app. I had a little too much excitement this week and need a break from fully engaging with people. And I have to say, this weekend is the best weekend I've had so far. It feels good to be alone, to do my own thing and have small moments of positivity with so many strangers. 

This was more a brain dump and my day's update, haha. The main takeaway though: smiling is magic, try it. :) 